We would like to thank the reviewers for their very detailed and 
helpful comments. In the following, we ellaborate on how we addressed 
the feed in the revised version of our paper. 

Some major points first. 
Structure of the paper
% R1: I found the structure of the introduction hard to follow. There seems to be
      a lot of biological detail before a high level overview is introduced in 1.2
      meaning its easy to get bogged down without seeing the bigger picture.
% R2: I found the introduction to be unclear as presented currently because there
      was insufficient information to understand the aims of the paper and proposed 
      method before going into the biological details and problem formulation. 
Reviewers 1 and 2 both felt that the structure of the paper can be improved. 
Both reviewers suggested the introduction section should provide a high-level overview 
to help the reader to see the big picture. We have now updated the introduction section 
to give an overview of the complete work and in the next section, we go into the details
of biology. We have also combined the materials in Sec 1.5 and 1.6 with the introduction 
and merged Sec 1.2 and 1.3 as a separate section with detailed biological description 
(as suggested by reviewer 2).


TODO: Compare the to the previous results by the same authors.  XXX
% R2: The contribution of this work compared to previous papers should
be clarified.
Reviewer 2 asked for a comparision to the previous papers which is now been 
added as part of the introduction section, with providing link to the main 
paper upfront (as pointed out by Reviewer 1). 
@ASHUTOSH XXX

% R1: The weighting given to each section.
@ASHUTOSH XXX

Graph connectedness property.
Reviewer 3 pointed out that graph connectedness is not well motivated. 
% R3: Graph connectedness is identified by the authors as a ’key property’ of the
      system, but this is not well-motivated in the paper. On page 12, line 35
      onwards, you suggest that you have chosen graph connectedness as something
      that ’appears’ to be relevant. Why should a biologist be concerned with
      this property? On page 24, you further state that the biological relevance
      of the stable and k-connected property is debatable. To me this statement
      undermines your work and raises the question of whether you have set up a
      modelling problem that is biologically useful.
It is often the case that biological data is missing. For example, only a few of 
the dozens of molecules involved in real VTSs have been mapped out. Therefore, it 
is extremely likely that the description provided by the cell biologist is 
incomplete. 
Can we find a simple test to see whether any information is missing, given the 
experimental data? The graph k-connectedness furnishes precisely such a test. 
If the data provided by cell-biologists, suitably represented as a graph, does
not have a certain degree of connectivity, this implies that some biological 
data has been missed. (The converse is not true: even if the required 
connectivity does hold, there might, of course, be more information missing.) 
We have added a complete paragraph to motivate the graph connectedness 
property and provided the above argument in detail as part of the (updated section)
Sec 2. 

Reviewers raises several technical questions.
  % R2: encoding details that were unclear
    - encoding cardinality constraints for k-connectivity
    - encoding of the (uninterpreted) activation functions f_m and g_m into SAT 
  @ASHUTOSH XXX
  
  % R2: Is the application of a QBF solver (or an exhaustive enumeration 
        over the universal quantification) necessary (Sec 4.0.2)? If the 
        alternation involves only two quantifiers, can the problem be inverted, 
        for example to search for the smallest k such that a k-connected graph 
        satisfying the properties exists? In other words, an UNSAT answer for 
        k<k_min would imply that no such graphs exist.
    The section 4.0.2 provides a high-level overview of the problem and in 
    the implementation, we search for an UNSAT answer. This is evident from 
    the 5.2.1 QBF search problem. 
    The possible confusion can still persist so we have merged the Sec 4 
    Property of interest and Sec 5 Search encodings together to avoid the same. 
    This will present a contrast between a high-level overview and optimal 
    implementation. 
  
  % R2: I found the separation between problem statements (Sec 5) and Encoding
        (Sec 6) confusing.
   We now provide the search problem as a part of (updated section) Sec 5 
   Problem statements. Stating the problem formally we think is interesting 
   to some of the audience of the paper specially to formal methods community. 
   The updated structuring enables a computational biologist to read the informal 
   presentation and just gloss over the formal ones.  

  % R2: Large parts of Sec 5 seem like background (e.g. BMC) and should be part
        of an introduction or preliminaries (e.g. together with 2.0.1).
   We have condensed the background details and moved it to preliminaries.

  % R2: If Sec 4 is required, it could be made more precise given the formal 
         model introduced in Sec 3.
   We have merged the Sec 4 and Sec 5 into a single (updates section) Sec 5
   to make the presentation precise.
 
  % R2: In Sec 1.4, it would be helpful to understand where the 'large number of 
        graphs' is coming from, though this is somewhat clarified later in the paper.
  We have added the information in the introduction section.

  % R2: Large parts of Sec 5 seem like background (e.g. BMC) and should be part 
        of an introduction or preliminaries (e.g. together with 2.0.1).
   We have now condensed the background discussion and present it as a part of
   the preliminaries.

  % R2: In Sec 5.1 it wasn’t clear what the ’length of the path of the underline 
    graph’ referred to. Is that the graph diameter or some other property? 
    How does the restriction to elementary cycles affect this
  We only talk about the longest simple path. We now refer to it as the 
  “total number of nodes in the graph”. This covers all elementary cycles.
  
  % R2: In 6.1.2, should the condition in PresentE be an ’if and only if’, since 
    at least one molecule is required on each edge?
  Although this requires equality; one direction conditional is sufficient as the 
  other case is covered by the fusion rule. 

  % R2 & R3: Reference [67] is repeated as [68]
  This is now fixed.

  % R3: The abbreviation QBFs is used from p11 onwards, but this abbreviation is not 
        defined for the reader.
  We have corrected it. Added it within the introduction section. 

  % R3: A 45 minute timeout seems quite short to me, based on similar SAT problems
        I have run in the past. Why did you opt for this cutoff? 
  The choice of the cutoff time was arbitrary. 

  % R3: Please provide references for CBMC (page 27) and Z3 (page 28). 
  We have updated the draft and added references to both.

  % R3: Line 14, page 15: what do you mean by ’parts’ ?
  The missing "parts" refers to the missing "components". 
  We have updated the draft with the correction.
 
Reviewers raises several questions related to the biology.
  % R2: Clarify: what role does the activity of molecules on edges
        or in compartments play? 
       It wasn’t clear to me what role does the activity of molecules on
       edges or in compartments play. It seems that the graph corresponding 
       to the model as currently defined is purely static - the activity of 
       molecules depends only on which molecules are available in a 
       compartment/edge, which is encoded as part of the graph structure. 
       Therefore, the more interesting regulatory dynamics of activations/
       inhibitions are abstracted. However, this leads to a counter-intuitive 
       model definition (def 1), where the activity of a molecule m_i can depend 
       on another molecule m_j being present or not in a compartment but whether 
       m_j is active or inactive in that compartment is ignored.
   In this work, we use the term 'activity' to have very specific scope; it only 
   implies the ability to cause membrane fusion and it only applies to SNAREs. 
   In this sense, it indeed does not matter whether the molecule interacting with 
   the SNARE is active or not. 
   For example, Qa-SNAREs are only ’active’ on target compartments (regulation by
   SM proteins achieves this [Baker and Hughson, 2016]), but when present on vesicles
   with its other cognate SNAREs, it nevertheless will participate in SNARE complex
   formation within the same vesicle membrane, and thus inhibit its SNARE partners 
   from causing vesicle fusion.
   We have added this paragraph in 2.3.4 Molecular regulation (Updated) section.
  
  % R2: The biological description can be simplified to only what is required 
        to understand the model, while relevant references could be provided to 
        supply additional biological details.  For example, dynamin does not seem 
        to be discussed in the paper at all and tethering, uncoating, etc are only 
        mentioned as biological details but not captured in the model. Perhaps, 
        the biological description can be simplified to only what is required to 
        understand the model, while relevant references could be provided to 
        supply additional biological details. 
  % R3: I would argue further that some of the detail of the biological section 
         is unecessary.
    To make the description of molecular events of vesicle traffic more accessible 
    to non-biologist readers, we have simplified the text by removing details which 
    are not necessary for understanding the current work. 
    The references we provide in the text should be sufficient if the interested 
    reader wishes to gain a deeper knowledge of the molecular mechanism.  
    In section 1.1.1, we have removed details about the localization and
    interactions of specific examples of adaptor and coat proteins.
    In section 1.1.2, we have removed details about the Rab protein localization 
    and its significance. We have also removed the hypotheses about the additional 
    functions tethers might play during vesicle fusion. 
    All the changes are now part of the (updated section) Sec 2 Biological Problem

  % R2: If Fig 2, I wasn’t clear why the cargo proteins seem to be attached from 
        outside the source compartment. My understanding was that there could be
        transmembrane as well as cargo proteins from within the compartments.
    There indeed can be lumenal cargo in vesicles, but because lumenal proteins 
    cannot interact directly with cytosolic adaptors, they are recruited to 
    vesicles through their interactions with transmembrane proteins. To depict 
    these interactions, we have now included lumenal proteins in our revised 
    schematic (Fig 1A).

  % R2: Given that a relatively small number of 9 different organelles/compartments 
       is considered, perhaps a figure indicating these compartments (like the ones
       in the appendix) would be helpful.
    We have updated the Fig. 1 and added 1(C) to indictate these comparments.

  % R2: I also found the regulatory interactions presented in Sec 1.1.3 unclear. 
        Could this be summarized as an interaction network between the  
        main regulators?
   In order to depict the major interactions of SNARE proteins described in 
   Sec 1.1.3 more clearly, we have added a figure (Fig 1B), where these 
   interactions are represented as a network.
 
  % R2: It was surprising to see parts of Sec 1.4. as part of the introduction 
        because this seems to discuss novel results.
   We have removed this discussion from the front of the paper. 

  % R3: The abstraction of the VTS and the definition of the pairing matrix 
         could be clarified for the reader if the biological background were not 
         quite so separated from the remainder of the manuscript.
   We have added a simple explanation in the introduction to give an overview.

  % R3: A clear definition of the pairing matrix is missing.
   We have added the definition with the explanation of the pairing matrix in the 
   (updated section) Sec 2 Molecular regulation as suggested. 

  % R3: I would like the interpretation of your results to have been unpacked 
        further (e.g. expanding on the paragraph starting on line 32 of page 29). 
        This again will help to communicate the contribution of your work to the 
        biological problem being studied.
   We have accordingly expanded our text on the interpretation of the work. In 
   order to make the significance of our model and potential uses of our tool 
   more explicit, we have revised the first paragraph of the conclusion section.

 % R3: You refer to predictions that could be tested experimentally, but these 
       predictions are not made explicit or translated back to definitive 
       biological experiments that could be run. Would a biologist be able to 
       take your tool, apply it to the VTS they are studying and formulate 
       experiments based on the model?
   We have added suggestions of how an experimentalist could use the outputs of 
   our tool to hasten discoveries of new vesicles in VTSs. 
   Updated paragraph 2 of the conclusion section.

  % R3: Figs. 5 and 6 are not referred to in the manuscript, and could easily 
  	have been missed. 
   We have added a reference to these figures in Example 2. We have also 
   updated the Fig 1 to add schematic, Fig 1C of typic eukaryotic cell’s VTS.  

  % R3: The notation and colours used in Fig. 2 should be explained in the 
        figure legend.
  We have added the explanation of notations and colors in Fig 2.
    
We thank for the other comments, which we appropriately implemented. 
